Hence here we are going to see the use case of Your said cut,
a WK And arrays with one simple example.
So simply one video to understand the uses of set cut in
public and arrays with an example of simple shell script to get all available,
good to wash hands from official Git website.
So how our official website right. For good.
Let me open it.
So I'm going to open official website.
Yeah. So get a C on 90.
How your website for you are good to download too, right?
So just go to get SEM or directly don't go to Download Options.
Then here, just select Linux or Unix
because we are going to work with shell script means Unix.
Unix like systems, right?
So here, just to go to your download a tarball and you'll get a page,
right, some index page.
If you observe here. Here you have
all your good watersheds which are available currently, right?
So you got different versions.
Now my requirement is I'm going to write a simple shell script just
to list all the available good fortunes from this official website.
Right? So if you observe here guys,
there is a geodata Node.js one, yeah, both are same.
Here are 02, then geodata R3, right?
So you have one digit file then sign-in file,
and somewhere you have some documentation file.
But if you go with the,
any one of the representation like thought dot z, z,
and then you will get all your good to a chance.
Right? Now, guys, if you want to download a page or a content of your page,
you have two options.
First, let me show you that from your command line.
See, let me check it whether W is there or not.
Yes, it is their right. And curl.
But it is there on Martin.
Yes, it's present, right?
So now what I'm doing is curl your URL, then see the output.
You are going to get that into your HTML page here.
Or if you take simply W get command.
And if URL, it will download a page.
Observe that which phase it has been downloaded.
Just now it has been downloaded index.html.
Just observed that page.
What you how?
So all the information you how in this page with an HTML page, right?
So you can use either current or w get commands.
So if you use KCl directly display or information on your command line,
if you go with W get command,
it will download your page by default.
Suppose here you are getting index.html page, right?
Fine. Now for time being,
I am going to work with W get command to understand,
to jump, to create,
to develop our shells gave to
display all get Watson's which are available with your official website.
Right?
So let me go and implement discrepancies.
So I'm going to get right yet.
So before that, let me check it.
Which bash, so I won't use bin bash has my interpreter.
So get get worse shunts which are available with you, our official website.
So let me write shebang line.
Okay, so I'm going to write, that's fine.
So before going to implement your shell script,
right, you are going to use very first up as W get command.
Whether you are W get command is there or not, you have to check it.
So what I'm doing is first-time chicken simply, which get.
So wherever it is there or not.
So you know how we can validate,
often running any command where I do a success or not, right?
So immediately after checking, after this,
I am checking if dollar question mark is equal to 0, then it's fine.
Else then there is no,
sorry, W get command. Not good ways.
We are working with W get whether an applicant is there or not.
So if it is not equals to 0,
then I don't have a W get command,
then I'm not going to run my shell script. I want to stop it.
So simply I'm displaying.
Please install, delegate and retry. That's it.
So here is the purpose of this if condition is if,
suppose after running which W get,
if W get command is not present,
then this question mark value will become non-zero.
Then this condition will become true than you are displaying
this information right after this information.
If W get command is not there,
I want to stop my shell scripts.
So simply I'm running with an exit status as one.
You can take any other code with exit I'm taking as if no one see what I'm
saying is as of now you how your double again because we are not getting any error.
Let me remove.
Now as you know,
I don't have to obligate command right now if I run our shells,
gave c one it is giving,
please install doublet under it, right?
So that's why just we are validating with the W get command is there or not,
because we are going to use that in our shell script.
That's why I'm checking whether it is there or not.
If it is there, Nobel and VD is not there.
We can't don't want our page.
That's fine. Now let me open ourselves clip now.
And before going to download,
what I'm doing is in case if,
if this file is Xist index.html.
Because whenever, if you don't know, know,
you are getting this as a file and in this file,
you are having your information.
If it is there, then I am removing that file from my location. If it is not there.
More problem, right?
See, if you observed previously whenever,
if you've done, you're downloading this index.html.
So because suppose you are running the shell script today,
you may have some different options with your get official website tomorrow if you run,
maybe there are some updated good versions.
So if this previously downloaded file,
maybe there is a chance to.
Get some wrong information.
That's why before downloading your content as index.html,
if in the current location,
if any file is there, I want to remove that.
That's why I added a condition with if Xist,
if that file is Xist,
then only remove that. Otherwise, no problem.
Right?
Now I'm going to download.
So if you want to take, you ought to really can take in this way you are L equals two.
Let me copy my URL from here. That's it.
So just for our understanding purpose,
what I am doing is a co
removing all index.html.
That's it.
Fine. So after this just I am downloading
an obligate URL page. So offer that immediately.
I am checking whether that downloading content is successful or not.
If it is not equal to 0, it was failed.
Then I want to say to the user, echo,
unable to download, get info from this website.
This URL. Again, I'm exiting now whatever code too.
That's fine.
If it is there no problem, right?
See what I'm doing is as of now the core what we is weather getting there,
sorry whether W get command is there or not.
If it is there, it won't do anything.
If it is not there, it will say the information to the inner,
please install, obligate and then retried.
Same a if index.html file is there, it will remove.
Right?
Then if it is not that it won't do anything,
then you are having a URL to download.
You are a content of your Git Washington's,
then W get URL.
So if this was success than Donald,
question mark value equals to 0.
If it is equal to 0, then this is fail.
I mean false, then you are not going to do any.
You're not going to execute this if condition.
In case if it was fail,
then this question mark is not equals to 0,
then you are conditioned becomes true.
Then you are displaying this information,
then you are exiting, right?
So as of now, see that you have w index.html.
Let me remove that first.
Now I'm going to run your shell script. Just observe the output.
Right?
See now you how your index.html file just now we downward that.
Now if I rerun first it will remove C,
the output, removing old index.html, then it is downloading.
That means whenever if you are running your shell script,
always you are getting latest information from your official website.
That's fine.
Now let me open your index.html,
which is known loaded up toward the output.
So guys, if you come to very first,
otherwise I will take simply Cartier phi,
let me head 20.
Now, I need only this,
get geodata 0-1, 0-2.
Good geodata three. But if you observe,
if you take these two lines,
same machine you are getting here and here.
But there is a small difference with this term,
tar.gz here, thought dot sine here.
Right? Now what I want to do is, first of all,
from this all lines,
I am going to filter with the help of set command.
I want to get only these lines which are having good hyphen, some digit dot-dot-dot.
Other than that, I don't want to get anything.
Right. Simply, let me take this as some simple line.
I'm going to explain this force on your command line.
Aco, sorry, let me take a variable called line,
echo, dollar line, sorry.
So there is no, I want read a sed command such
that such that I need to match the information.
So vice Actually you were anti-Chinese in this way.
And this is not, you are taking only this one,
but you were anti-Chinese.
Let me take it complete line.
So this is your entire line, something like that.
Okay. No echo dollar line.
Now this is your line.
Now in this line, right?
Just, I am going to write some set commands such that
if you are line consists of good some digits,
then tar.gz, that lens only I want to print it.
Right?
So for 3000 data set command with some patterns.
So how you can write your pattern.
So initially what I'm writing is you are lying.
Said printed the lines which are having with the get the hyphen.
Right? So there's After that,
I need a some number, right?
So if we want to number,
you have to write 0 to nine any number.
And if you observe in your gigawatts shuns. Let me take some.
Yeah. See you how to dot 4.1a.
One means two digits you have here.
But if you go with year two dot 4.1a,
that means you are number may be minimum, one number maximum.
You don't know exactly, right?
So at least I should have one number.
Then.
Slash plus means offer Gita hyphen,
I should have a dessert.
That digit, maybe one digit sought to digits,
you know, what is the meaning of slash plus?
Already we discussed in our one-off video,
one of the video of special characters to create
your earlier expressions with the help of your special characters.
Right there we discussed are bored slash plus.
Now the meaningful slash bill is what?
Toward the desert, you are getting here.
That digit, maybe one digit or tourists or three digits, whatever it may be.
So often you are deserts.
You have dot as well.
Now I want to match dot with dot nicely if I take simply dot.me any character,
but I want to make it dot with dot,
then you ought to take Slashdot.
Allele would discuss this rule as well.
Right? Then. These lines only I want to print.
Let me check it whether you are able to get your output amount yes, you are getting.
Now what I'm going to do is it is not perfect. You guys.
Let me do one thing. Now I'm going to use a while loop
to read your line one by one from your file called Where is your file?
Index.html.
Right now what I am doing is a co, your line.
And then I'm using this said syntax.
I mean the lines which are following this one.
Those lines only I want to print.
So just for our understanding purpose,
I am writing sleep command here,
sleep one so that we can observe the output.
I mean, for each and every line.
Now let me go ahead and run this. Man. Something wrong.
The next unexpected token, Yeah,
let me open my script. Do, done.
Yeah, less than symbol I mystery here,
less than symbol
a whatsoever.
Yeah, see that? You are getting some lines which are having only thought dot,
sorry, get the hyphens, something, right?
Let me stop my script here itself.
Get hyphen number tar.gz.
Along with that, you are getting thought dot sine as well.
But I want to get only tar.gz because if I go with the tar.gz and thought dot sine,
I'm getting same wash and again and again,
that's why I can take either tar.gz line or sign one of the line, right?
Of course you can also use simply you are grep command as well,
which consists of.tar.gz, right?
But if you take tar.gz,
let me show you that as well.
Because you may get idea.
Why can't we use grep command, right?
So what I'm using is
if this consist of grep thought dot z,
Zed, those lines only I want to print.
Right? Let me execute this script once and see the output.
You download it. Now, you are taking one by one line
from URL with way or while loop on your looking.
Is it's working as of no perfectly see somewhere.
You will get a lot done thoughts desert,
right? Let me show you that.
Once if it get, then I will show you that you have to wait.
Because our given 1 second sleep for each and every line, right?
You need to wait for some time to observe a difference.
Why can't we go with the grep command?
I will do one thing. I will remove sleep command because
you're going to waste your time actually now
given just for our understanding purpose, this sleep comment.
Let me run it and see the output.
Then here I can show you. See this.
Good to manage pages to dot-dot-dot for dot tar.gz.
Having tar.gz, same version number.
Is there somewhere with only ever get hyphen c,
you are having HTML documents information as well. Let means.
If you go with only tar.gz, No,
you're going to get duplicate numbers again and again.
That's why I want to filter.
I can filter with the help of the sed command effectively.
But how can I filter?
That is the question here.
Right? Now, if you go with
your sed command with the help of regular expression, you can filter that.
Right?
Let me do one thing.
Let me take your holiday.
We did collide. Let me open your file. Where is this line?
So instead of your grep command, just take set,
printed the lines which are having,
first of all, get the hyphen.
So after that you have digits like,
you know, get Guassian means,
let me take one version I can explain you suppose get,
if we run iPhone,
iPhone version two or six dot three,
but in your page you are having something like let me take this.
And same information you may house somewhere
with some what is the washroom does is to not 4.1a, right?
Let me go with the two dot 4.1a.
See here, pull out 4.1a.
Now this line as well as the if I write lines.
And now let me go with two dot followed one z,
z two dot 4.1a.
Desert.
Know although these two lines,
we have seen what SHA-1 here,
but duplicate if I take this line,
I have to skip this line,
or if I take this line,
I have to skip next lane.
That's why I just I'm going to work with only get hyphens,
some number dot tar.gz only I wanted to get that line so
that I can get unique number for each and each and every version.
Now, I need to write a set command to match, right?
Third hyphen in whatever the line you are having,
four that get hyphen.
Any I don't know exactly what the number is there,
but it should be there between 0 to nine anyone of the number, right?
One number and sometimes even two dot c for three, something like that.
That means there is a chance to have
one more number as well along with your single digit.
That's why I'm trying to map with
the slash plus means you are number maybe one time or more than one,
that after you or number, you have data as well.
So I want to match dot,
dot slash dot, right?
So now you written a pattern for this exactly.
You written same exact string.
The only thing is to match your digits.
You have to write a pattern.
Now this is only to match a foster deceit,
not this type of digits.
Two dot three, dot one dot this type of sequence.
You, you may repeat.
I mean your watch and may repeat.
So if you remember,
the purpose of grouping concept is if any sequence is repeated to identify that,
we have to group your particular pattern.
Not this sequence may be one or more times.
Because definitely you'll have one disease.
If it is a merchant, at least one digit.
Right, one digit then dot-dot-dot z, z.
That's why I'm writing it 0 to nine to match one visit.
If there is one more digit,
I want to match that as well.
That's why I am writing slash plus.
Right? Then.
Did this type of 2.2K,
maybe some x dot one.me,
same sequence you are repeating.
That's wafers to group this sequence.
So two group, you have to use parenthesis.
That sequence may be minimum anyway, you have one time.
So that's why slash plus means one or more times.
Right? So after that, offer,
repeating your sequence finally,
how do we end up with the dot tar.gz?
Right? Finally, you have to end up with tar.gz.
That's why I'm digging ending world, tar.gz.
So the lines which are having this pattern,
I want to print those lines.
There is nothing is there just a copy these two?
So to write your patrons.
And let me take from here also.
So if your line consists of any one of these two patterns,
I want to match only this pattern.
Now first of all, observe there is a good to common.
I mean, for all your type of Washington's get is common,
that's why I'm taking pattern has good hyphen.
Offer that definitely you have a number,
then only this will match.
If you write some number, this will skip because here do you don't have the number right?
After I for you don't know the number.
You have a letter. That's why you are going to skip that.
Now. 0 to nine,
any number, that number maybe
one time or more than one offer that you hover dot, so Slashdot.
And this sequence is going to repeat because suppose to dot-dot-dot 0.5c, some version.
That's why this sequence you had to repeat.
That's why I'm making it as a group.
And this group, maybe one time or minimum one time.
That's why I'm taking slash plus more than that.
Offer that simply you how?
Thor, sorry, non-native dot because already you,
you are covering dot inside of your sequence like then simply thought dots isn't, right?
No, let me copy this one.
And I am going to write, I'm going to place this in my shell script so
that I'm going to get the lines, unique lines.
I mean, for what chance I'm going to get now lines, unique lines.
Now I'm going to print the lines which are having our required pattern.
Let me run this and see the output C. Now you are getting only your tar.gz nowhere.
You're getting duplicated version number.
So you can go with from starting all or only get hyphen sm, something, right?
But I don't want to print the entire line.
I want to print only this portion first.
Because from this portion, if I able to fetch this portion,
then from that I can grab my washer number.
That's why what I am doing is if you have good here guys,
there is a quotation, these fields operator.
If I take with your AWPA command,
then this is foster part,
then this is second part, hygienic oxidation here.
Then this is third part.
But I need the second part.
That's why what I am doing is I don't want to print an entire line.
Now simply, I am using here WK command,
hyphen f, capital F.
I'm giving feels operator has double quotation.
Then I want to print a second field.
Now see the output, what you are going to get.
C, you're getting only these lines,
I mean.tar.gz or getting.
But in this information what I need,
I need only actually do Node.js one geodata 0.
Do these Watson's I need.
First I am trying to eliminate, get the hyphen.
Okay?
So k. Suppose if this is your line C,
I can use your AWPA command with three separate RAS.
Suppose hyphen.
Then I can take second field.
Why second field? If you separate this information with help of iPhone,
this is one field,
this is second field.
So if I want to get second field,
I, however I2, right?
Printed dollar to see the output.
Yes. But why should we write this lengthy obligate command?
I have a cut command.
So compared to this cut command is very useful here.
If you observe Getty's Foster character,
second 34, if you remove only first 24 characters from 50 characters,
you need entire thing.
Right?
Don't consider like a fifth,
sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth we need,
because somewhere you Mohamad these eight
position multiple leaves the see here, somebody how to 0.
That's what I'm saying is suppose,
if we consider only last one with the cut command 1234 from 50 character 5X 6789.
Right?
So if you take simply hyphen sci fi to nine,
it will work for the last line, right?
I will do one thing. Echo, last Lenny This one.
Right?
So I am applying cut command on this line.
See the output you are getting perfectly or Washington.
But you're writing generalized where no.
If in case if something Watson is like two dot nine dot two.
So nine, 2.5a, then you are missing last visit here.
But for each and every line,
if you observe faster for character sorts similar.
That's why from fifth character,
I'm printing all the lines,
sorry, all the characters in each and every line.
Let me open this, our script.
Now what I'm doing is.
Pipeline, cut characters, print from phi to last.
Now see the output. So now you're getting good hyphen.
Now if I run my shell script c, what you are getting.
Now I need to remove this portion.
Right now I can use, once again,
you are elderly gay comment on output of this final output pipeline,
a WK fields operate as tar.gz.
Then I can print your Foster Field so that I will get only worse shunts printed $1.1.
That's a knowledge other output,
you're going to get only versions.
Right?
But the thing is, I don't want display,
I mean, one-by-one sequence in this way.
Because if we display in this way, finally,
you are not able to see all the options in a single page.
I want to see all the Watson Sr. single-page.
So that's why what I'm doing is after finding your each and every git version,
I'm going to store all these functions into one variable called array that we open this,
let me declare somewhere summary.
Declare iPhone, yay, good towards shunts.
I'm taking simply this variable.
Okay? So whatever the output you are getting, right?
So for that, I am going to,
that output I'm going to store into
my array list to store your array value into your array.
You have a Syntax.
Let me show you that.
I mean, first I am going to get,
instead of displaying your output,
I'm going to store this into an array.
Where is it lost line ending?
Yeah, this is okay.
So I guess before come into this description,
you know, I'm in this shell script.
It's better to go with your previous concepts like we discussed in our course, right?
Reach and every concepts,
whatever we had as of now,
it all concepts will be discussed in our course.
Like your arrays, just to go to your curriculum.
I mean newer around syllabus,
whatever the course you have taken from Udemy,
our course, complete Bash shell scripting, right?
So you need RAs concepts somewhere and print,
printf also we need for this script.
I will show you why we need men somewhere.
We how arrays information as well.
Arrays we have here, right?
And also we differ somewhere.
Loops, guys, I'm somewhere.
Yeah, yeah, WK we discussed here.
Then said comma Cut command.
We discussed here complete Cut command,
said come and also we discussed here completely, right?
Okay, if you go with the, all these concepts,
then the strip is very easy for you, right?
Fine. Now what I'm doing is after finding each and every version of your good,
I'm adding into my array.
So my arrays, some git version.
Right? So, yeah, so this is the value in my array.
So I need to apply one more parenthesis.
That's fine.
Alright, let me print off the completion of your while loop.
Finally, I'm renting the all available.
Get what's Shen saw.
Let me bring you or get to a shuns which we collected in
terms of your variable called This one.
Let me check it whether it is working perfectly or not.
It is finding now all Washington's once it is completed,
finally, to display all the machines which are there as an array.
Now these all, all are the versions which are there in
your official get what Shannon official website of your good.
So these are the versions.
Now I collected all into a variable,
into an array, and I am displaying the,
all the elements from your IRA.
But I don't want to display in the,
So if I display in this way, what will happen?
Somewhat clumsy, No, that's why what I wanted to ease in each line I want to print.
Suppose three values, three versions I want to print each and every line.
Right? So what I'm doing is I'm going to collect one-by-one from
this variable for each version in your array.
Right?
So I'm going to take some count,
the count two purposes initially 0,
just observe the output so that you can understand.
So after collecting all your versions,
simply I'm doing though Dan, let me do one thing.
Echo. See, I want
to print simply from your geared towards Shen variable.
That is another right. I want to print indexes 0 value.
That's it.
So that is the use of my count.
At the same time, in the same line,
I want to print two more values because in each and every line,
while displaying my Washington's,
I want to print three versions.
That's why I'm taking once again.
But now what I'm doing is for I have taken
two curly braces, count plus one.
Then what I will do is after slashed last T, I will do.
Once again, you are variable.
Then now I am going to display counter plus one plus two now,
because I wanted to just let third value from your IRA, cone plus two.
So here I missed her two parenthesis.
Anything wrong?
Square bracket. Fine.
To execute your slash t,
I need to use hyphen ni.
So after that, what I'm doing is I'm increasing
your count equals to initially or counties 0.
But first time you are getting three elements.
That's why next time, whenever it is going to,
for your next iteration, whenever,
if I want to get my elements,
I want to make it as a count to three so that I can
get next time fourth element from your IRA.
Let me run this and see the output.
Yet one more thing.
You have, fine.
I will do one thing. Let me run your script ones.
So it is collecting all your questions.
Once it is collected with LPA for loop,
you are going to Amman nowhere we are displaying.
Yeah, we got it right.
But if you observe after getting your emotions anyway,
they are not in perfect order.
We will arrange that after getting,
you're getting some empty space, empty lines here.
Because once you collect all your variables,
all oliver, good versions from your array.
Let me show you that you are repeating
your for loop based on how many values are there in your array.
For first iteration, right?
You're not printing first value only you are printing three valleys successfully.
That's why. Let me first find out your length or for
a number of what Shane's equals to,
you know how to find light.
Already we cover these with the hash symbol.
You can get your right.
Let me as of now what I'm doing is I'm going to
come into your code just I want to display
whether we are able to get you are length or not, like o.
Number of good towards shuns equals two.
I want to display my number of questions
just to weight it is collecting.
Finally, we will display so
159 G20 actions are there as of now with your official website.
Okay, this after collecting your 159 with the help of for loop,
we are able to read and you're able to display.
But the problem is unnecessarily or getting some space here because your for loop
is going to repeat 159 times muddy.
You are getting all the versions values,
right, with the help of our own,
159 by three, because you are going to print each time three values.
So phi 53 lines by 53 lines you are getting, you are all versions.
Then remaining lines are empty because you are not having index range for that.
601, not six lines.
We are getting empty lines.
I don't want to get empty lines while displaying my output.
That's why what I am doing is now I got the length.
Let me uncomment my lines.
Seen case, if if you are counting value,
if it is greater than or equals to 159,
that means the number of good merchants.
Then I want to stop my loop.
Then simply break.
Now if I run our core,
you won't get any empty lines,
as you previously see that it is collecting.
So once it is done, omen something wrong.
What I did. Ok, spelling mistake, number of way.
The Russians are a number of questions we are, yes.
Fine.
And one more thing, let me write some echo command here so that you can understand.
Echo. Please wait.
Collecting all can get to our sense from
official website often get or get SCM or something like that.
Right?
Now. See that? Oh, we are repeating this for multiple times right now bellow.
I will make it as outside of your while loop.
See now you're not getting any empty lines of displaying audio or values.
Right? Now what I want to do
is instead of writing this line here,
yes, right before your while loop,
so that it will be revealed only one time.
So because of while loop,
you'll get collecting all your questions.
That's fine. Okay?
Nowadays, whatever the way you are
displaying your good to wash hands on your command line.
It is not in the proper order, right?
We just use print command,
print f command so that you can make it as clear output, right?
So for that what I'm dignities,
Let me do one thing.
I want to print each and every version of width,
width of suppose 20 spaces in country spaces,
I want to display my bit, my Watson.
Now instead of this echo command,
let me do one thing.
To understand this about print def,
you just to go through our complete print f command information already.
We have done that somewhere, right?
I mean, we have a separate lecture for that section for
that it just to go through that so that you can understand about this.
So I want to print three versions, right?
So that's why I want to repeat same thing for three times.
So here's star hyphen.
Star means to print the width, the size.
Then hyphen means from left to right.
Okay? Now, first is we'd,
let me print to it first.
And then second thing is then again, you are width.
Then now your second value.
Then width, then thought vacuum.
Right?
But after printing your h And every three lines of,
I mean, three versions, you need to print the next information next lane.
That's why I'm adding slash and because by default print f command,
owned go to next line.
Now let me check it and see the final output.
I hope it has to work.
So please wait, collecting all get abortions from official website of good SEM.
See that now the somewhat clear No,
I displayed information clearly.
So as of now still you are not able to get your information your single page.
Just try to do one thing.
You just tried to display all the informations.
I mean, well, displaying your information,
tried to display five versions
in each and every line so that you are entering
information will be there in a single page.
You just find that. Ok. So guys,
if you observe this script, right,
what we discuss here,
see we discuss some uses of the obligate command to download official,
I mean, some website information,
to download some page information.
And then we use somewhere sed command, right, where is it?
Sed command, then uses of cut command somewhere,
and then AWPA command.
And finally we use arrays.
We added information to our array, right?
And then we also use print f command that to two required format to output,
to print our output in the required format, right?
So if you go through this subscript,
right, you'll get some concepts,
like you are said,
cut a WK, And finally arrays.
Ok.
So just go through this video at least 23 times so that you will
get some clear cut idea about these concepts.
Okay? Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.